Scientific Substantiation:
Deficiency symptoms of pantothenic acid in experimental settings include fatigue (IoM, 1998). The Panel concludes that a cause and effect relationship has been established between the dietary intake of pantothenic acid and reduction of tiredness and fatigue. However, the evidence provided does not establish that inadequate intake of pantothenic acid leading to tiredness and fatigue occurs in the general EU population.

Conditions and Restrictions:
None

Conclusions:
The claimed effect is “vitamin/mineral supplementation to reduce fatigue and tiredness in situations of inadequate micronutrient status”. The target population is assumed to be the general population. Reduction of tiredness and fatigue is a beneficial physiological effect. A cause and effect relationship has been established between the dietary intake of pantothenic acid and reduction of tiredness and fatigue. The evidence provided does not establish that inadequate intake of pantothenic acid leading to tiredness and fatigue occurs in the general EU population. The following wording reflects the scientific evidence: “Pantothenic acid can contribute to the reduction of tiredness and fatigue”.

References:
 
EFSA Panel on Dietetic Products, Nutrition and Allergies (NDA), 2009. Scientific Opinion on 
substantiation of health claims related to pantothenic acid and energy-yielding metabolism (ID 56, 
59, 60, 64, 171, 172, 208), mental performance (ID 57), maintenance of bone (ID 61), maintenance 
of teeth (ID 61), maintenance of hair (ID 61), maintenance of skin (ID 61), maintenance of nails 
(ID 61) and synthesis and metabolism of steroid hormones, vitamin D and some neurotransmitters 
(ID 181) pursuant to Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 on request from the European 
Commission. EFSA Journal, 7(9):1218, 19 pp.  
IoM (Institute of Medicine), 1998. Institute of Medicine Dietary reference intakes for thiamin, 
riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B6, folate, vitamin B12, pantothenic acid, biotin and choline. National 
Academy Press. Washington, D.C. 
 
