Scientific Substantiation:
Maintenance of normal joints (ID 409)  A total of 15 references were provided for the scientific substantiation of the claim. Ten human 
studies assessed plasma selenium concentrations in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, (juvenile) 
adult T-cell leukaemia. Five human intervention studies have been provided which were carried out in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis or chronic polyarthritis. The Panel considers that the evidence 
provided does not establish that patients with arthritis of different origin are representative of the 
general population with regard to the status of joint tissue, or that results obtained in studies on 
subjects with arthritis of different origin relating to the treatment of symptoms of these diseases can 
be extrapolated to the maintenance of normal joints in the general population. 
The Panel considers that no conclusions can be drawn from these references for the scientific 
substantiation of the claimed effect. 
The Panel concludes that a cause and effect relationship has not been established between the dietary 
intake of selenium and maintenance of normal joints. 
4. 
Panel’s

Conditions and Restrictions:
Conditions and possible restrictions of use 
The Panel considers that in order to bear the claims a food should be at least a source of selenium as 
per Annex to Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006. Such amounts can be easily consumed as part of a 
balanced diet. The target population is the general population. Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (ULs) 
have been established for adults, pregnant and lactating woman, children and adolescents (SCF, 
2000). 


Conclusions:
Maintenance of normal joints (ID 409)  
 
The claimed effect is “joint function”. The target population is assumed to be the general 
population. Maintenance of normal joints is a beneficial physiological effect. 
 
A cause and effect relationship has not been established between the dietary intake of 
selenium and maintenance of normal joints.

