Scientific Substantiation:
Maintenance of normal nails (ID 281)  Deficiency in selenium has been shown to result in various disorders including impairment of nails 
(Biesalski et al., 1995; Sunde, 2006). Clinical manifestations such as white nail beds, pseudoalbinism, 
alopecia and thin hair have been observed in particular in patients receiving total parenteral nutrition 
lacking selenium. Administration of selenium was able to restore these deficiency symptoms (Abrams 
et al., 1992; Kanekura et al., 2005; Masumoto et al., 2007; Vinton et al., 1987). 
The Panel concludes that a cause and effect relationship has been established between the dietary 
intake of selenium and maintenance of normal nails However, the evidence provided does not 
establish that inadequate intake of selenium leading to impaired maintenance of normal nails occurs in 
the general EU population. 
3.3.

Conditions and Restrictions:
Conditions and possible restrictions of use 
The Panel considers that in order to bear the claims a food should be at least a source of selenium as 
per Annex to Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006. Such amounts can be easily consumed as part of a 
balanced diet. The target population is the general population. Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (ULs) 
have been established for adults, pregnant and lactating woman, children and adolescents (SCF, 
2000). 


Conclusions:
Maintenance of normal nails (ID 281)  
 
The claimed effect is “hair and nail formation”. The target population is assumed to be the 
general population. Maintenance of normal nails is a beneficial physiological effect. 
 
A cause and effect relationship has been established between the dietary intake of selenium 
and maintenance of normal nails. 
 
The evidence provided does not establish that inadequate intake of selenium leading to 
impaired maintenance of normal nails occurs in the general EU population. 
 
The following wording reflects the scientific evidence: “Selenium contributes to the 
maintenance of normal nails”.

