Scientific Substantiation:
According to generally accepted scientific knowledge, chloride is an essential part of the human diet and is a part of most body fluids including blood, sweat, and tears. The amount of chloride in the body is controlled by the kidneys. The normal blood reference range of chloride for adults is 95 to 105 mmol per litre. There is usually no chloride deficiency in the human diet, and in Europe the intake tends to be higher than required (Elmadfa and Freisling, 2009). Six references cited include general reviews and handbook chapters (Bedanier, 2002; Garrow et al., 2000; Gibney et al., 2002; Mann and Truswell, 2002) and two technical reports (EVM, 2002; JHCI, 2003). It is well established that the chloride anion is an essential component of gastric juice acting as dissociated hydrochloric acid in the stomach. Chloride aids digestion by providing chloride for hydrochloric acid, an essential component of human digestive fluid. The Panel concludes that a cause and effect relationship has been established between the dietary intake of chloride as Na-, K-, Ca- or Mg-salt and contribution to normal digestion by production of hydrochloric acid in the stomach. However, the evidence provided does not establish that inadequate intake of chloride as Na-, K-, Ca- or Mg-salt leading to impaired digestion occurs in the general EU population.

Conditions and Restrictions:
 (ID 326) 
The Panel considers that in order to bear the claim a food should be at least a source of chloride as per 
Annex to Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006. Such amounts can be easily consumed as part of a balanced 
diet. The target population is the general population. 
Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (ULs) have not been established for chloride due to insufficient data 
(EFSA, 2005).  


Conclusions:
No conclusion data available

References:
 
Berdanier CD, Dwyer JT and Feldman EB, 2002. Handbook of Nutrition and Food. CRC Press. 
Taylor and Francis Book, Boca Raton.  
EFSA (European Food Safety Authority), 2005. Opinion of the Scientific Panel on Dietetic Products, 
Nutrition and Allergies on a request from the Commission related to the Tolerable Upper Intake 
Level of Chloride. The EFSA Journal, 210, 1-9.  
Elmadfa I and Freisling H, 2009. Nutritional status in Europe: methods and results. Nutrition 
Reviews, 67 Suppl 1:S130-134. 
EVM (Expert Group on Vitamins and Minerals), 2002. Review on Sodium Chloride. 
Garrow JS, James WPT and Ralph A, 2000. Human Nutrition and Dietetics. Churchill Livingstone, 
London, Edinburgh. 
Gibney MJ, Vorster H and Kok F, 2002. Introduction to Human Nutrition (The Nutrition Society 
Textbook). WileyBlackwell, Chichester.  
JHCI (Joint Health Claims Initiative), 2003. Final Technical Report A List of Well Established 
Nutrient Function Statements. 
Mann J and Truswell AS, 2002. Essentials of human nutrition. Oxford University Press USA, New 
York.  
